# Migration and Economic Recovery During COVID-19
This repo contains the final project for the Fundamentals of Data Science course offered at the Harvard Extension School. The project was created using Jupyter Notebooks, which has been outputted to a .html file and contains the written analysis, output, and code for the project. The data used for the project is described and linked below.

## Project Summary
My project analyzes migration patterns and economic recovery following the COVID-19 pandemic to understand the potential relationship between the two and attempt to predict future migration trends.

The ability to predict which areas of the US will grow in population faster than others after a national crisis is especially relevant to policymakers, who must prioritize government aid to the areas that need it most. During COVID, there were billions of dollars of federal money given to states and cities to help them recover from the pandemic, leaving local policymakers to make decisions about where to best allocate this spending.[[1]](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2022/03/11/us/how-covid-stimulus-money-was-spent.html) While COVID-19 may seem like a rare scenario, a recent study by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences warns that similar pandemics will become more common in the future.[[2]](https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2105482118) If policymakers are able to predict migration flows at a county-level, they will have a better sense of how to allocate aid on a per capita basis that reflects where people will be located in the future. Aid may also be more useful in areas that will continue to lose a lot of their population, which will inevitably affect the local economy. Furthermore, if these trends hold in post-COVID settings, predicting regional population growth could prove useful for other, non-crisis government initiatives, like infrastructure projects.

To accomplish these tasks, I employ county-level economic data that measure the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on consumer spending, employment, and small businesses. Additionally, I use data on post office change of address requests to estimate migration patterns at the county-level. The result of this project is a model that can predict migration patterns, primarily through seasonal trends, but with slightly increased accuracy using economic data. I find that there are strong correlations between economic activity and migration patterns, though these relationships only lead to modest improvements in a model that attempts to predict future migration patterns.

## Data Sources
For this project, I use data from two sources. First, I gather data from Opportunity Insights.[[5]](https://github.com/OpportunityInsights/EconomicTracker) Opportunity Insights is a group of researchers that uses economic data to explore inequalities across the United States. During COVID-19, this group partnered with several companies to track how the pandemic had affected local economies in the US and subsequently track the local recovery as the pandemic progressed. Specifically, they have data on county-level credit/debit card spending, employment, small business revenues and openings, and cellphone mobility. Second, I gather migration data from the United States Postal Service (USPS).[[6]](https://about.usps.com/who/legal/foia/library.htm) USPS collects data on monthly address changes at the ZIP code level. For each month, they report the total address changes into a ZIP code and the total address changes out of a ZIP code, allowing me to approxmiate how many people are moving to and away from each ZIP code.
